[Music]
in 1869 in Brantford New Hampshire two
brothers Berea chest and hope that no
one ever finds it a century later in
1969 12 year-old Allen parish escapes a
group of bullies led by Billy Jessup and
retreats to his father Sam's shoe
factory he meets his friend Karl Bentley
who reveals a new shoe prototype he made
by himself
Allen miss places the shoe in damages a
machine but Carl takes responsibility
and gets fired after being beaten up by
Jessup's group who also steal his
bicycle allen follows the sound of drum
beats to a construction site he finds a
chest containing a board game called
Jumanji and brings it home at home after
an argument with Sam about attending
cliffside a boarding school for boys
Allen plans to run away his best friend
Sarah Whittle arrives to return his
bicycle Allen shows her Jumanji and
invites her to play with each roll of
the dice the game piece moves by itself
Anna cryptic message describing the
roles outcome appears in the crystal
ball at the center of the board
Sarah reads the first message on the
board and hears an eerie sound Allen
then unintentionally rolls the dice
after being startled by the chiming
clock a message tells him to wait in a
jungle until someone rolls a 5 or 8
Allen is sucked into the game and a
swarm of bats chases Sarah out of the
mansion 26 years later in 1995 after
their parents died in an accident on a
ski trip siblings Judy and Peter Shepard
move into the vacant Parrish mansion
with their aunt Nora
soon after Judy and Peter find Jumanji
in the attic and begin playing it their
roles release a swarm of big mosquitoes
and a troop of monkeys the game rules
state that everything will be restored
when the game ends so they continue
playing Peters next role releases a lion
and an adult Allen as Allen makes his
way out he encounters Carl who is now
working as a police officer with Carl
not knowing who Allen is Allen Judy and
Peter go to the now clothes shoe factory
where a derelict tells Allen that after
his disappearance
Sam abandoned his business and searched
for Allen until his death just four
years earlier in 1991 Allen is
devastated by the revelation especially
since he learns that his father loved
him more than he ever realized
realizing they need Sarah to finish the
game the three locate her now suffering
from post-traumatic stress disorder from
Allen's disappearance and they persuade
her to join them
Sarah's role releases fast-growing
carnivorous plants
allons next roll releases a big-game
hunter named a van Pelt Judy's next role
releases a stampede of various animals
and a pelican steals the game
Peter retrieves it but alan is arrested
by carl during that time Peter cheats
and starts transforming into a monkey
later the van Pelt catches up to Alan's
friends and steals the game
Sarah Judy and Peter follow van pelt to
a department store where they fight him
retrieve the game and reunite with Alan
who managed to hijack Carl's car after
convincing Carl to release him and Carl
recognizing Alan when the four returned
to the mansion it is now completely
overrun by jungle wildlife they release
and dodge numerous calamities until Van
Pelt arrives and confronts Alan when
Alan drops the dice he wins the game
which causes everything that happened as
a result of the game to be reversed due
to the fact that Alan and Sarah began
the game in 1969 time reverses to the
moment they started playing as children
leaving both with memories of everything
that had occurred
Alan reconciles with his father and
admits that he was responsible for the
shoe that damaged the factories machine
Carl is rehired and Sam tells his son
that he does not have to attend boarding
school after he realizes that Alan would
be much happier at home and with Sarah
Alan and Sarah throw Jumanji into a
river and then share a kiss as the
beginner romantic relationship in an
alternate 1995 Alan and Sarah are
married and are expecting their first
child
Alan runs the factory after Sam is
retired but he and his wife are still
alive while Carl is still working at the
factory he and Sarah reunite with Judy
and Peter and meet their parents during
a Christmas party the parish's offered
him a job and convinced the Shepherd's
to cancel their upcoming ski trip
thereby preventing their deaths from the
previous timeline on a beach two girls
are seen speaking French and walking
towards a partially buried Jumanji as
drumbeats begin playing
[Music]